---
title: v4.0.3
slug: releases/4.0.3
sidebar:
  order: 996
---

April 4, 2024

## 🕰️ &nbsp; History

- History is now searchable
- Individual history events can now be deleted

  _Accessible through the ⋮ menu. Delete via tile menu - will be added later._

- Windows and tabs in history events can now be deleted

  _Select the items you want to delete, then either hit the Delete key or right-click the selection and click Delete_

## 🔎 &nbsp; Search

- The search box now filters the currently-viewed tabs/links in real time as you type. Hit Enter to search ALL collections and history.
- Search terms can now be targeted specifically to collections, history, windows, folders, tabs, or links with syntax like `history:session,buddy` (no spaces)

  _More meta query support, like title vs URL, will be added later._

- The search dropdown, which lists results by relevance, now stays closed by default after hitting Enter to search. Re-focus the search input box to open it. You can choose to view either _all_ ranked results or _only tab and link_ results.

## 🧶 &nbsp; Misc

- Tab opening optimizations (suspend, delay) have been disabled by default. A setting has been added to enable them under **Settings > Tabs**.
- Fixed a bug causing unmatched items to be selected when range-selecting search-filtered items
- Added ability to assign a keyboard shortcut to “Save open tabs”

  _To edit extension keyboard shortcuts, go to chrome://extensions/shortcuts_

- Added support for old-style (main.html) Session Buddy URLs

- Modified clicks (with ctrl/cmd and/or shift) on tab and link URLs now conform to standard Chrome - behavior

  _For reference: in Chrome, ctrl (or cmd) + click on a link opens it in a new tab. Doing this while also holding down shift does the same but activates the - new tab. Shift+click opens the link in a new window._

- Updated required Chrome version from 110 to 109
